>>And now, world renowned
spirit medium James Van Praagh.
[AUDIENCE CHEERING AND
APPLAUDING]
>> JAMES VAN PRAAGH:
Hi, everyone.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Nice to have you here,
your lovely faces.
And nicely at home
you're joining us today.
I love sharing this space
here in "Spirit Talk," where
I take you one step
closer to heaven.
And today I thought we would
talk a little bit, before we
get started with the spirit
world, about the chakra system.
So the chakra system, many have
heard about the word chakra,
but many don't
know what it means.
And the word chakra is
actually a Sanskrit word
which means spinning light
or spinning wheel of light.
We are all light.
We are spiritual beings
having a human experience.
And as that light,
whenever a clairvoyant
will look at somebody and they
see them and they look at them,
they will see their lights.
They will see, if you
will, the chakra system.
The chakra system are made of
beautiful, beautiful lights
of the rainbow: reds, orange,
yellows, greens, blues,
purples, and so forth.
So what I'd like to do
today is to work with you
and talk to you
about the chakras
and various properties
about the chakras:
where they're located, what
they look like, et cetera.
So the first chakra
is in the base
of the spine, the coccyx
bone many of us know about.
And that's right here at
the base, right down here
at the base of the spine.
How many of you
have some problems
in the lower back or the
coccyx bone, stuff like that?
Great.
So that's very, very interesting
because that tells me
it could be, and I'm
not saying definite,
but it could be an ailment
of not enough energy
in the first root chakra.
It could be also-- you have to
realize the first root chakra,
and it's the color of red,
and the first root chakra
is really the space or the
center-- it's about survival.
It's about our survival.
It's about our
survival instinct.
And anybody in your
life who are looking
to you for their
survival many times
will plug into that chakra
and pull your energy
from there, siphon
off the energy.
Hello.
So sometimes you feel
this pain down there.
And after a while, you're
around these people
all the time who suck
your energy away from you,
and you feel lower
back problems.
Many times it's people who are
really pulling your energy,
and that's a survival technique.
So if you don't have proper
balance in that first chakra
and it's not well-rounded,
it's not expanded,
you might find that you
have some problems there.
And it might be problems also
you might be very insecure,
not sure of yourself, not
loving yourself, not feeling
fully grounded within yourself.
That tells me that there's
not enough red energy
in the first root chakra.
So isn't that interesting?
Yeah?
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>> VAN PRAAGH: We'll look at
that in a couple of seconds
when we work a little
bit with the meditation,
but that's something
to know about.
That's the base chakra.
The second chakra is
the orange chakra, yes?
And that is about two
inches below the belly
button or the pubic bone, yes?
And that is also the
first place where
we have raw emotion come
through, raw emotion.
And it's also the sense of self.
It's a sense of self.
It's the first sense
of loving self.
It's the first sense of having
freedom of choice of self,
being free and easy and not
so serious in your life.
It's about
procreation, of course,
so it's like what do you
want to bring to the world?
What do you want
to leave the world?
What do you want to
produce in the world?
So it's all that sort of thing.
Now if I see when I'm reading
the chakras that there's not
a lot of energy there
in the orange chakra
or that it's not
fully expansive,
I know there's been some
issues or there still
are some underlying issues
which the person might have
had not only today but for
many years, such as abuse
issues, sexual issues, abuse
issues, behavioral issues,
addiction issues.
They have all these
different types of things
there in that second chakra
about self, a sense of self.
So when we see that
there isn't enough energy
in that second chakra,
we have to build it up
with orange light, and I will do
that, again, in just a second.
Now that second chakra
is very important,
because also it is the first
base of the emotional self,
the first chakra of
the emotional self.
I'll finish with that
in a couple of minutes.
Now I'm moving up to
the third chakra, which
is the solar plexus, right here,
right near the belly button.
You've heard the expression
go with your gut, yes?
Go with your gut right here.
It's a seat of
instinct right here.
It's a real strong sense of
power of self, power of self.
And it really does
bring assurance of self,
of really believing
in self even more so.
It's the second
emotional center,
which means that you feel
more strong within yourself,
you have more
belief in yourself.
I am who I am.
Accept me for who I am.
That's what I'm doing.
I'm strong within my being.
And that's the second
yellow root chakra,
the instinct, the intuitive.
A lot of psychics
work very, very much
from this third chakra
here or the instinctive.
OK?
So go with your gut,
that's where it's located.
People who have the
third chakra and it's
not really well-balanced
or it's not fully expanded
or there's not enough
energy in that third chakra,
you'll find these are people
that overpower themselves.
They find that there's
too much power, ego.
They're not fully
aware of who they are,
but they're just really reacting
to the power in that center.
It's not an expansive power.
It's just right here.
It's just power of self,
and it gets a little ego.
And it gets a
little bit-- it can
be very abusive as far
as treating people badly.
And it's this sort of a thing,
so be careful with that.
Yeah.
Right.
Now we want to go up
further to the heart chakra.
And I love working with the
heart chakra right here.
It's a third emotional center.
Right here.
So look at this.
We had the second, the third,
and now the fourth, the heart
chakra.
And that two, three,
and four, those chakras
are really the centers for
what we call clairsentience.
Clairsentience is a French
word meaning clear sensing.
So for a medium, someone who
uses the sensing of themselves,
sensing of the
spirit world, sensing
of the world around
them, the physical,
they'll use the second,
third, and fourth chakra,
your sensing chakras, OK?
Second, third, fourth.
Interesting, yes?
This is the sensing.
So the heart chakra,
lovely chakra, green color.
Beautiful chakra for
a sense of balance.
It's a place of healing.
It's a place of self-love.
It is a place for
higher mindedness,
as far as people are concerned,
caring for your neighbor,
caring for one
another, attitudes
about the world around you.
Spiritual attitudes,
giving, compassion, balance,
it's all there in that
heart chakra, beautiful.
Emotional self,
strongest emotional self.
So it's really interesting.
If that chakra is
closed down, they're
not loving themselves enough.
They're not being able to
love into their highest
capacity, the potential
that they have.
And so we really want
to work with bringing
more energy to that
heart chakra, yes?
The green light.
OK.
The next chakra
we're going to go to
is the throat chakra right here.
This is the throat right here.
And this is the color blue.
It's a beautiful sky blue.
And this is a wonderful
creative center,
a wonderful creative
center, in that
when I work with a
lot of artists per se
and people that are very
sensitive to the world
around them
aesthetically, I'll notice
they have very beautiful
blue, blue colors
all around the throat chakra.
And it's a lovely
center also used
for healing work for all
musician work or artist work,
acting work.
Any self-expression comes
from the throat chakra.
So I will many times
work with people,
and I see that they
are very closed down
in the throat chakra.
And I know that probably someone
told them very, very long ago,
perhaps when they were children,
that say, you can't say that.
You're not allowed to say that.
And they shut right down.
They stop expressing themselves,
because that was not allowed,
and they tend to live in fear.
And I will work
with them and say,
I see your throat chakra
is closed right down.
What were you not
allowed to express?
What were you not allowed
to say when were a child?
And inevitably, they'll say,
well, my parents told me this,
or somebody told me that.
I wasn't able to express myself.
So part of the work
with the throat chakra
is bringing up the energy to
really illuminate and amplify
that self-expression and let
that be shining brightly, yes?
It's also-- and this is
very, very interesting--
as far as mediumship goes
and speaking with spirit,
I use this throat chakra all
the time, because this throat
chakra has to do with what
we call clairaudience.
Clairaudience means
clear hearing,
the French word
mean clear hearing.
So when I hear a spirit come
through, which we'll see,
I will listen.
And I'll listen
with my psychic ear,
which is really located here.
So it's this whole
area right here.
So I use the throat
chakra, but it's
connected with the psychic ear.
This is all connected.
Now this is very, very
interesting as well.
When the spirit world come to
me and they want to speak to me,
they speak to me not,
like, words like hello,
how are you today?
I hear it very, very
quickly, because they're
in such a fast vibration, such a
fast dimension that it's hello,
you, today very, very quickly.
So I just get snippets, bits
and pieces of information.
Now when the spirit will
come through in that way,
in that manner,
they will first come
through the back of
the neck right here.
This is a psychic opening.
You've heard of eyes
behind your head?
You've heard that expression?
It's very, very true.
This is a doorway for the
energy to come through first.
It comes in this way, and
it goes around the neck,
almost like wearing a necklace.
So that's really how that works.
It's pretty trippy.
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
So sometimes if you're
around a lot of psyche people
or if you're around a lot of
crystals, if you go to a place
where there are a
lot of crystals,
there'll be a lot of
amplified energy all the time,
all the time.
And you'll walk out of
there with a headache.
And most of the time,
it'll come from this area,
because there's so much energy
and power coming through here.
And that's why you
get the headaches.
So it's a matter of
modulation, of modulating
the energy of all the
different chakras.
Now the next chakra
I'm going to talk about
is right here, which is
the third eye center.
You've all heard of
the third eye, yes?
The third eye center.
And that's a lovely,
lovely color of indigo.
And this indigo
center right here
is the site for what we call
clairvoyance, clear sight,
clairvoyance.
So it's having visions.
It's having dreams.
It's using your imagination.
It's being able to use
your imagination, being
able to see things
really strongly.
And I'm not necessarily
talking just
about mediumship or psychically
but also your imagination,
also being able to
visualize things,
also having visualizations
of your own life,
what you want to
experience in your life,
being able to create
with your vision.
That's what that's about.
That's that third eye center.
When I use it, I also use
it for my clairvoyance
and as a medium.
And as a medium, I'm
able to see the spirit.
I'm able to use my clairvoyance
to see their faces.
I'll see sometimes
what they're wearing.
Many times they'll show
me in my mind's eye
a scene that I relate to
the person in the audience
so they can identify the spirit
or identify that scenario.
So I'm being used
for the clairvoyance.
I never know what the
spirit's going to say,
what they're going to do.
They use any of the
abilities they want.
They use my
clairsentience, they'll
use my throat, my clairaudience,
and also my clairvoyance.
So I never know.
From spirit to
spirit, it changes.
Just like we're all individuals,
they're also individuals,
and they come through
very differently.
Now this is very interesting.
When someone doesn't see
themselves in a loving way,
feel good about
themselves, really
have a sense of the
future about themselves,
I know that that clear
vision is blocked.
I do know that.
I see that when
I work with them.
So that's the other part of it.
The last chakra I'm
going to talk about
is the very top of the
head, which you all
know, the crown chakra.
And that's lovely color of
indigo right at the crown
chakra right here.
So we're all made up of
energy, and this crown chakra
is really the opening, if you
will, for the higher learning,
the higher connection
to the spirit world.
It's what we called
inspiration, meaning in spirit.
So this really is the
doorway to inspiration.
So when I see somebody
who's very inspired,
a creative person,
a poet, a writer,
someone who's really involved
with higher learning, higher
philosophies,
spiritual teachings,
I will see many, many
times that this top crown
chakra is very
brightly lit, very
brightly lit in that lovely,
lovely violet light, the violet
flame we tend to call it.
And it's just, just beautiful.
I know that if somebody
doesn't believe, again,
in their own sense of self, as
far as inspiration, willingness
to do things, courage, I
know that sometimes this
is blocked in the crown chakra.
So we'll work with
that, bringing
more of that light energy to
the top of the head, the crown
chakra.
So that's the chakra system.
I hope you got-- it's
a very simplified
version of the chakra
system, as you can tell.
And each color, of course, has
a vibration, has a sense of tone
to it, and it has an
energy associated with it.
And in just a few
minutes, we're going
to do a little bit of
a visualization for you
to get in contact with
that energy center that's
really most strongly within you.
So before we do that,
I'm going to open up
the floor to any questions
here in the audience.
Yes, ma'am.
Would you mind standing up?
That'd be great.
>> AUDIENCE: Not at all.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
Would you elaborate a
little bit on the connection
between the chakras
and the energy
and just expand on that a bit?
>> VAN PRAAGH: I'd love to.
So the connection
of the chakras,
it's very much like
flowing energy.
So it's a flowing stream
of energy, if you will.
I often think of it as a river,
a river flowing or a tributary
is flowing.
It flows up and
down the spine, yes,
sort of like a serpent in a way.
And each center is
really a concentration
of a certain energy at
a certain frequency.
And it'll flow up
and down the spine.
But certain areas, again, if
you were effected emotionally,
let's say you had a
connection with somebody
that you had a relationship,
there was a divorce,
it was a bad breakup,
there's emotional upheaval,
and that's still
staying within you,
or there was an abuse
issue, or there's something
that you felt that you didn't
really feel good about,
you could have
prevented something,
you might have some
guilt about something,
it stays down here
in the power place.
If you stay onto that,
you have to remember
that when you come
from a negative sense,
that negativity slows
things down, right?
So negativity and fear slow
down that natural flow.
So if you have
something that occurred,
an upheaval, something
emotionally, or whatever it is,
even a physical that
happened, many times it'll
slow the energy, and it
doesn't flow correctly.
So how can you make
it flow better?
By using more concentrated
energy, meditation.
You could actually
also have certain foods
which will amplify
the certain energy
points, the certain chakras
points, certain minerals,
certain foods.
You can have salt baths with
certain ingredients in it,
which will also enhance it.
You can listen to
certain types of music,
because every
single chakra point
is attuned to a
certain chord of music.
Even the clothes
that you're wearing--
let's say that you
need more energy.
If you tend to wear red,
you're bringing more energy
to the first chakra, so
there's more energy there.
Let's say you need to feel
more loving about yourself,
wearing green, self-love.
Everything being energy,
and the chakra points
are concentrated energy
in the body, the spirit
body, concentrated energy, yes?
So I'm going to ask you,
if you go to your closet
in the morning or your drawer
and you tend to pick out
a certain color clothing,
what does that mean?
Or if you like to go
with certain colors
around your environment, more
blues or more pinks or more
reds, they mean
something to you.
Your spirit is trying to help
you to amplify, if you will,
those energy points of the
body, the colors that you need,
the vibration that you need,
and the frequency that you need
within your body,
within your being,
I'll say, within your being.
So my audience
here today, they're
wearing a variety of
clothing, of colored clothing.
And I want to ask you
why you wore this color.
So for instance,
you're wearing red.
>> AUDIENCE: Because I wanted to
stand out in the audience when
I saw myself on TV.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Red is
a real strong energy.
>> AUDIENCE: It's very strong.
>> VAN PRAAGH:
It's strong energy.
>> AUDIENCE: And my house is
decorated-- every room has red.
I don't know what that means.
I like red.
I don't know.
>> VAN PRAAGH: You like red,
which means that you need more
energy around you,
believe it or not.
>> AUDIENCE: Maybe.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Now this
is very interesting,
because in olden
days-- olden days,
maybe they still do it
in some restaurants--
they used to always have red
paint or red wallpaper with red
tablecloths.
Why would they do that?
>> AUDIENCE: To
make you eat faster.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Make
you eat faster,
so the turnaround is quicker.
So it's a much faster
energy, that red.
So go, go, go, go.
Why would they have
hospitals-- they
used to paint the hospital
rooms in greens and blues.
Healing.
Interesting.
And it's very, very
interesting, because when
you go to-- let's say you're
watching a storefront,
you go down the street, and
you're looking at a storefront,
you will react intrinsically
within your being
and all your chakra points.
You will react to what
that window looks like.
On another level,
you'll be like that.
When you meet
someone face-to-face,
you're going to
react with the colors
you feel from them, not
only from their clothing,
but also what you're feeling
from them on the chakra levels.
So there'll be
some colors that'll
be standing out
more than others.
So interesting.
So what I'd like to
share with you now is
I'd like to do a little
bit of a little meditation
or a visualization,
and I really want
you to try and intrinsically
feel the chakra points
and actually bring more
color to various points which
I speak about.
Now I also want you to
notice something as well.
When you go into this
little meditation
and this instinctive,
if you will, exercise,
I just want you to pay attention
what energy, what color you
have seem to have less of and
what you seem to have more of.
This is not a judgment.
It is not a judgment.
I just want you to kind of feel
what you have more color of
and what you have less color of.
So when I point
out various colors,
I want you to just
feel intuitively
what feels right to you, what
feels more, what feels less.
OK?
So I'm going to ask you
just to close your eyes,
and I'm just going
to speak to you.
[MEDITATIVE MUSIC PLAYING]
OK?
Just listen to the
sound of my voice,
and just become mindful
of your feet on the floor.
Become aware of your bodies,
sitting in the chairs,
lying down.
Wherever you are, that's fine.
Just listen to my voice.
Great.
And I just want you to
be mindful of the body.
Be mindful of your feet.
Be mindful of your connection
to Mother Earth, lovely Gaia,
Earth, that we also
as spiritual beings
are very much a part
of Gaia, Mother Earth.
We are connected to her.
We're not limited to
the physical body,
but our energy, our spirit is
also part of the Earth energy.
So just be mindful of that
and take a deep breath.
[INHALES AUDIBLY] And exhale.
[EXHALES AUDIBLY] Great.
And now place your mind
and your imagination
on the base of your spine.
And I just want you to see a
red light, a red circle there.
And just be mindful of that
beautiful red circle of light.
And as you put
that in your mind,
also become aware
intuitively of what
you feel with the red, what
comes into your mind, what
you sense in that red chakra.
And as you connect
with that red chakra,
just be aware if there's anybody
else in that center, anyone
else's energy that's
sitting in that center.
Just be mindful of that.
No judgement, just observation.
And then we're going
to go a little higher
with our imagination, our mind,
two inches below the belly
button, top of the pubic
bone, bright orange light,
a bright orange circle.
And just as you connect
with that orange chakra,
that second chakra, you will
be mindful of how it feels.
What does that color feel like?
What does that center feel like?
It feels a little bit
different than the red.
And as you feel the orange
light, that orange chakra,
what awareness comes
into your mind?
What awareness comes
Are there people that
come into your mind,
an energy that comes
into your mind?
Whatever it is is fine.
It's just observing,
not judging.
Good.
Take a deep breath.
Exhale.
Now we're going to
go two inches higher,
two inches above the
belly button, actually.
And that's a yellow light.
That's your solar plexus.
And just imagine a
beautiful yellow circle
of light in the solar plexus
area, a beautiful yellow, round
sun of light.
And this the center there
for sensing, feeling.
So as you attune yourself
to that third chakra
point, that yellow center,
what comes across your mind?
What feelings do you have?
What do you sense as you connect
with that beautiful third
chakra point in your
gut, your intuition?
Is there anyone's energy there?
If you seem to feel someone's
energy there, see them.
If they come across your
mind, what do you sense?
Is there any part of that
center which seems out
of balance or out of alignment?
Now take a deep breath.
[INHALES AUDIBLY] And
exhale. [EXHALES AUDIBLY]
Now we're going to
go up to our heart
chakra, a beautiful
green light in the heart,
beautiful center for healing,
compassion, unconditional love.
This beautiful green light
of healing is so beautiful,
I just love being there.
As you scan that green
light, that green center,
that green chakra, become
mindful of any energy
you feel in that center.
Don't judge it.
Just observe it.
Is anyone there,
any old hurts, any
old emotions you're
still holding onto?
Just see it and let it go.
Take a deep breath.
[INHALES AUDIBLY] And
exhale. [EXHALES AUDIBLY]
And now to your throat chakra,
which is blue, bright blue,
sky blue.
And just place yourself
in that throat chakra,
being mindful of
the self-expression.
Do you fully express yourself?
Do you hold yourself back
from expressing yourself?
Just become mindful of any
energies that are there,
any faces that you see,
anything holding you back
from self-expression.
And take a deep breath.
[INHALES AUDIBLY] And
exhale. [EXHALES AUDIBLY]
Now go to your third eye center.
Very good.
The site of clairvoyance,
a beautiful indigo color,
the circle of light, right
in the eyebrows, right there.
This is how you
see clearly, having
visions, seeing your future,
imaginations, dreams as well.
And as you connect yourself with
that center, what do you find?
What's holding you back
from seeing things clearly?
What's holding you back from
seeing spirits all around you?
What's holding you
back from seeing truth,
your own truth or
those around you?
Just being mindful, not
judging, but observing.
Take a deep breath.
[INHALES AUDIBLY] And exhale.
[EXHALES AUDIBLY]
And now place your awareness
on the top of the head
where the crown
chakra is located.
And this is the
beautiful indigo colors,
circle of light of
indigo, the doorway
to the spiritual worlds,
the higher worlds
of learning, the etheric worlds.
Your guides and your
teachers connect with you
in the crown chakra.
So just be mindful of what
the atmosphere around the top
of the head feels like,
that indigo color.
Are you open-minded?
Are you there to learn higher
truths, philosophies, prayers?
What do you feel
when you connect
with that atmosphere
at the crown chakra
at the top of the head?
Not judging, just observing.
And take a deep breath.
[INHALES AUDIBLY] And exhale.
[EXHALES AUDIBLY] And slowly
open up your eyes and be as one.
Great.
OK.
Did you like that?
[AUDIENCE RESPONDING
AFFIRMATIVELY]
Yes.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So I just want to ask
you, any reactions
that you had with that
little visualization?
Anybody surprised about certain
reactions that they had?
Yes.
And over here.
>> AUDIENCE: My right
arm started shaking.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Your right
Well, I'm going to tell you why
your right arm started shaking.
There's a man next to you who
would be a husband of yours
that passed to the
world of the spirit.
And I know he'd be next to you.
Does that make sense to you?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So I know he was touching you.
He touched you at one point.
Because I was
watching everybody.
When we worked with
the heart center,
I saw him go next
to you and hug you,
and he was on this side of you.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: So what I want to
do is I'm going to connect with
you, because as we are working,
I saw this gentleman coming
here, and he feels like your
husband and he feels like
your father.
This would be your
dad that passed over.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Now I need to come to you
very, very-- I understand that.
Thank you very much.
All right.
He talks about his
daughter, first of all.
And he said you cause a lot
of problems for yourself.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: So why don't
you stand up too, honey.
>> AUDIENCE: OK.
Oh, hey, mom.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
What is your name, darling?
>> AUDIENCE: Cathy.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Hi, Cathy.
How are you?
>> AUDIENCE: OK.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And your mom's?
What is your name?
>> AUDIENCE: Mary Jo.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Mary Jo.
So this man is between
the both of you,
and the man is referring
to being your father
and is referring to
a scar on your leg.
You know about that?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I don't know what's the
significance about that scar
on your leg, but your
father wants me--
he's coming into my
mind here, and he
wants me very much to
point that out to you.
And I don't know
why, but he wants
me to point-- it's a long
time you've had that scar.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And I don't
know if you fell off something
or you fell off somewhere.
>> AUDIENCE: A bicycle.
>> VAN PRAAGH: A bicycle.
Got infected, did it?
>> AUDIENCE: Well,
they worked on it.
>> VAN PRAAGH:
They worked on it.
So I know that--
>> AUDIENCE: And he prayed on
it, and from there it healed.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I know from this day
your father is telling me
that your walk is not completely
right, because sometimes I
feel it right here.
>> AUDIENCE: OK.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Do
you understand that?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And
I'm going to tell you,
your dad is talking about
knee problem, by the way.
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah.
That was the same leg that I
injured my knee as a child.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I feel the knee problem.
He's giving me a feeling
of being knee problem.
Now as this man comes through,
I want to come to you, darling,
and I want to tell you that July
for some reason is significant.
So he's making me feel about
July, the month of July
is significant for you.
Does that make sense?
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah.
We had a daughter born in July.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Oh, is
it your birthday, then?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
July.
OK.
So he's really impact July,
and it's very significant.
And I know that there
has been some talk
about-- I understand that.
Are there two others in
the family besides you?
There are two others?
>> AUDIENCE: There's lots more.
>> AUDIENCE: There's more.
>> VAN PRAAGH: There's
four all together.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Uh-huh.
>> AUDIENCE: There's
four children.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Were there two
others that did not make it?
Did you have some miscarriages?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes, I did.
>> VAN PRAAGH: You
did, didn't you?
Because he said there
were two miscarriages,
and he has them over
on the other side.
>> AUDIENCE: Wonderful.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
He's a very, very lovely man.
I just got to tell you that
his energy's very, very, very
strong.
And I know there's
a Joseph as well.
So there'd be a Joseph
in the spirit world.
You understand the
Joseph, please?
Where's Joseph?
>> AUDIENCE: Joseph would
have been my grandfather.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I know that Joseph
wants to stand here with us,
and I know Joseph
is very significant.
And I want to give you
love from this man, OK?
I think you might have
known him as a little girl
or might have seen him and
very quickly, because then I
think he must have passed
when you were a young girl,
but he passed over.
But I think you did
know him, because he
said he knew you physically.
OK?
>> AUDIENCE: OK.
>> VAN PRAAGH: I also want to
talk about he wants to bring me
to some steps--
>> AUDIENCE: OK.
>> VAN PRAAGH: --and
I want to be very,
very careful on those steps,
because someone almost had
a fall or a spill on the steps.
>> AUDIENCE: That
happens all the time.
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah.
It was icy.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Because I've got
to tell you that he's talking
to me about your husband passes.
He might have been ill
for just a little bit.
I've got to tell you that.
And did his mind
go a little bit?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Did
his mind go, you see?
Because he's talking
about his mind went.
He said, my mind was not mine.
How funny.
>> AUDIENCE: That's very true.
>> VAN PRAAGH: It's
very true, isn't it?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And I know
about crossword puzzles,
and I know about doing the
crossword puzzles and the word
puzzles.
Do you understand that?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes, I do.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Did he used
to do those all the time,
and do you understand that?
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah, I do.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And you do them.
And do you still do
them every day, please?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Because I need to
let you know that your husband
is with you when you do the
crossword puzzles every single
day.
>> AUDIENCE: That's where
the voice comes through.
>> VAN PRAAGH: That's
where it comes through.
Very, very much so.
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>> VAN PRAAGH:
Very, very much so.
And I know that there must
have been a heart problem here
with you?
>> AUDIENCE: Well, yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
Do you understand that?
Because he's referring to the
heart, a little heart problem.
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>> VAN PRAAGH: So I don't know
if there's some ventricle,
there was a ventricle
problem with you.
He said the ventricle.
So I know there'd be
a ventricle problem.
Does that make sense to you?
>> AUDIENCE: I have a
blood clot in my aorta.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Mm hmm.
So he's just telling you that.
He's making me feel that.
He's making me feel very
much connected with that.
Yes.
And I know there's some Irish
people in the background
here as well.
There's an Irish feeling here.
I'm not sure if it's your
family or his family,
but I'm getting a very
Irish feeling here.
And I need to let you know
Mc-something, Mc-something
here.
And I need to let you know that
I know that the heart thing is
not done yet, so I know that
you've either been-- they want
to either do a procedure or
you had to have a procedure,
but I know something is
not finished with that yet.
Is that right?
>> AUDIENCE: We're waiting
for the clot to dissolve.
They're hoping.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Right.
Right.
>> AUDIENCE: It's an art form.
>> AUDIENCE: I'm positive.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So, my love, I
just got to let you
know that this
man, your husband,
is telling me that
either they're giving you
some medicine for it to dissolve
and you recently either changed
the medicine or they
gave you something
on top of that other
medicine you were taking.
Is that right?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH:
Thank you very much.
He's telling me that.
That's what he's telling me.
That's very specific, isn't it?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: It's
very, very specific.
And I want you to pay very,
very close attention to the salt
that you're taking in.
And I don't know
why, but there's
something about the
salt levels or salt,
either you had to
cut the salt out.
And I'm just very leery--
now I'm not a doctor,
but I'm telling you something.
Your husband makes me feel--
And your mother's
over here, by the way.
Your mother is behind me, and
she's laughing her head off.
Laughing her head off.
And there's also someone
named Cathleen or Catherine
or something over here as well.
It's a Cathy or Catherine.
>> AUDIENCE: That's me.
>> AUDIENCE: That's my daughter.
>> AUDIENCE: I'm Catherine.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Is
that your name?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: I'm hearing this
lady saying Catherine to me.
So that's you.
OK.
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Well, your mother's here.
Your mother's here very strong.
And she can walk.
She's fine.
She can get around,
and she can walk again.
>> AUDIENCE: Wonderful.
>> VAN PRAAGH: So she couldn't
have walked when she was
on the Earth at the end.
Remember that.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes, I do.
>> VAN PRAAGH: She couldn't
walk at the end of her life.
She's saying that.
>> AUDIENCE: Right.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And now she's
telling me she's able to do
that, OK?
And Yeah, go on.
I understand that.
They're all here for you.
There's a brother also.
There must be a
brother passed over,
because he's here as well.
>> AUDIENCE: Steve.
>> VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
And I want it to be him,
and he's just so emotional.
Because I got to tell you.
I can see his eyes.
He can see again.
So there was a problem with
an eye at one point with him.
Do you understand that, please?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes, I do.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Thank you And
I know that he's telling me he
can see again.
He says it's like
having brand new eyes,
and I love that with him.
And I got to tell
you that they're all
concerned about the
medicine that you're taking.
So it's the second one
that they just gave you.
It's the second
one that goes along
with that other one you were on.
Do you understand that?
>> AUDIENCE: I do.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And you've either
been taking it for two months,
two weeks.
It's a new--
>> AUDIENCE: Two weeks.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Two weeks.
Thank you very much.
>> AUDIENCE: You got it.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Two weeks.
>> AUDIENCE: Right on.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
Two weeks.
So I want you, please,
to look into that.
Catherine, would you
help that, please?
>> AUDIENCE: Oh, yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Because if they
come this far and to discuss
it, I want to make sure that
you take care of yourself.
>> AUDIENCE: OK.
>> VAN PRAAGH: All right?
>> AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And so look at
the chemical makeup of that
second medication.
>> AUDIENCE: I will.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Please.
All right?
And there's a new house
around one of you.
So I don't know
if you're looking
for a new house or
someone in the family's
looking at a new house
or wanting to move.
>> AUDIENCE: It would
probably be me down the road.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I'm helping you with
that, so let me know that.
>> AUDIENCE: Really?
>> VAN PRAAGH: I'll
leave you with that.
All right, sweethearts?
>> AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>> AUDIENCE: I apprecaite it.
[AUDIENCE APPLAUDING]
What a wonderful person.
>> VAN PRAAGH: It's so funny,
because as I tune in, I tend
to come over to this area
here, and I have a man here,
and he wants to be known to me.
And I got to say that
this man feels to me,
I would say probably
early 70s now,
and I'm talking about
a father figure.
And I know that I'm in my 70s.
I feel like I'm strong.
I would not have come
to something like this.
And I got to go then.
And I feel like I'm-- OK.
And I got to tell
you that whoever's
here in the audience
for this man,
I got to tell you
that either you almost
didn't make it here or almost
weren't supposed to make it,
and this man comes here--
Go on.
What?
He's trying to figure out how
to say this to me in my head.
Right.
I understand.
So the person in the
audience, either you almost
didn't make it or you're
taking somebody else's seat
or something like that.
So does that make
sense to somebody?
What about you?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes, to the man.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Is
it your father?
>> AUDIENCE: It's my father.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Do you
mind coming up on stage?
>> AUDIENCE: Sure.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And we'll do
a reading on stage for you.
So Anne, I just want
to tune into you,
because I had a man
here that passed over.
It felt like a father
figure for you.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And before
he passed over, Anne,
I need to tell you something.
I want to do a couple
of things with you.
I first want you to
work with these cards.
These are cards
that I just created
called Talking to Heaven
cards with Doreen Virtue.
And these are cards which
are mediumship cards,
and what they are is your way of
contacting spirit on your own.
And you at home, you
can do this on your own.
You don't need a medium
to contact spirit.
Believe it or not, you don't.
>> AUDIENCE: I would love that.
Thank you.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So hold those cards,
Anne, and I want
you to put your energy
into those cards
and shuffle them all around.
And as you're shuffling
those cards around,
dad is right behind you.
There's a grandmother
next to you
as well-- that would be his
mother-- that's next to you.
And I just want you
to think of your dad
as you shuffle those cards.
And what I want you to do is as
you're shuffling those cards,
I want you also to
think of a question
you want to ask your dad.
And just think of your dad.
There you go.
Good, you got it now.
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah.
How'd you see that?
>> VAN PRAAGH: Because he
comes closer to you that way.
When we open ourselves up and
open up our energy field--
>> AUDIENCE: I was going to
ask a shallow question and then
something more important--
>> VAN PRAAGH: No,
no, don't tell us.
>> AUDIENCE: --came up.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Don't tell us.
Whatever you want to
ask, don't tell us.
And when you feel it's
ready to put the cards down,
and you're going
to pick one card.
You can spread it
out on the table.
>> AUDIENCE: This one.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Spread them
out on the table first.
I just want you to
spread them out.
There you go.
Spread them all out, and then
I want you instinctively,
intuitively to feel when
you want the right answer
from your father to pick the
card that comes out to you.
OK.
What is the question?
>> AUDIENCE: Did
he appreciate me?
>> VAN PRAAGH: And the answer
is "I have a new understanding."
So you can take them again
and put them together.
And those are yours.
>> AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>> VAN PRAAGH: You're welcome.
Those are yours to use.
>> AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK?
So let me just tune
in with your day,
because I have him right-- he's
standing right next to you.
He is with you in the car.
And you asked him on
the way here in the car
to please show up.
Is that right?
>> AUDIENCE: I did.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And he said, I'm here.
He's also talked
to me about someone
must have grown up Catholic
or was religious growing up.
Did someone go to a church
and light a candle for him?
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah.
Just after he passed,
I got a phone call.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because that's what it was.
It was a cross I was seeing, and
I'm seeing candles and, like,
a church, like going into this
church and lighting a candle.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
A new friend of mine that
was in Santa Fe at the time
lit a candle for
my father while I
was trying to make
some decisions.
My parents passed 20 hours--
>> VAN PRAAGH: Don't tell me.
Don't tell me.
So I just wanted to let
you know that something
about a military
connection as well.
Wait, don't tell me.
Let me tell you.
You just say yes or no.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: It
makes it much easier.
Never feed the medium.
Say yes or no.
>> AUDIENCE: Sorry.
Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Your dad is right here.
He's a very-- can I
say?-- a regimented man.
He likes schedules.
He likes details.
He even has a calendar
that he used to cross off.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: [LAUGHS]
>> AUDIENCE: [LOUDLY] Yes.
Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And he used to
cross off that calendar all
the time, and he had to make
sure his checkbooks were
exactly right.
And if anyone caused
problems with his systems--
he said his systems-- he
would argue with them.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: So I know there
would have been a time where he
either went to the bank and
argued about something with his
checkbook was wrong or something
was not adding up correctly,
and he would have done
this sort of thing.
So I want you to go back
a little bit in time,
because I don't want you
to think of him as older.
I want you to think of him more
of as younger than older, OK?
I know that you must have--
He's talking to me about
a pair of glasses of his.
Who owns a pair
of glasses, then?
Do you own his pair of glasses?
Do you have someone's glasses?
>> AUDIENCE: I have his old
Ray-Bans from when he was
a fighter pilot.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
And from when he was
in the military, then.
Great.
So I know also that you would
have a photograph of him
in that military uniform
and in about that time.
Perfect.
I know that that would
be at a time in his life
where he really appears now.
That's how he shows
himself to me.
So that would be
the time he would
be late 20s, this sort of time.
And I know there was moving
around a lot, he said,
so there must have
been moving around.
I don't know if you're
the military family.
You had to go from
place to place to place,
but he always had to go from
place to place to place.
That make sense to you?
>> AUDIENCE: He did, yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK, great.
And I know that your
mom, she's also passed,
your mother, right?
Right.
She comes in with him.
She's right on the
left side of you.
She's on this side of you,
and he's on this side.
Now that's because he's
communicating with me,
but she's over here.
Now she wants to
give you her love,
and she said she
had-- Oh, I'm getting
very emotional with your mother.
She wished she
went when she did.
>> AUDIENCE: I know.
>> VAN PRAAGH: You know that?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Because I know
the timing was a little weird
when they passed.
They passed very close
to each other, right?
>> AUDIENCE: 20 hours.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Two weeks?
20 hours.
>> AUDIENCE: Two,
you got the two.
It was at 20.
>> VAN PRAAGH: 20 hours.
Wow.
So I know there'd be definitely
some connection as far
as them passing,
and it was too much.
Mom couldn't bear it.
You know that?
Mom was like [GAGS].
And it was a big
change for everybody.
I got to tell you that.
Was there Air Force?
Was it Air Force
around your dad?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because Air Force, very much so.
And I also want to go to
Germany for some reason.
>> AUDIENCE: That's
where he was.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>> AUDIENCE: In
one of the places.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Well, Germany is
where he's giving me,
and I'm very strongly
connected with Germany,
as far as I'm identifying with.
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Now your mom
is telling me also she's very
happy where she's at.
They all came to greet her.
Now her mother and father,
are they both over there
as well, please?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And do you
have a sister as well?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Because I want
to give love to your sister,
who's here.
And I know that your mom's with
her, her mother and father.
There's a whole
family over there too.
I also tell you there's
somebody that could not walk.
And when I say not walk,
someone had either--
>> AUDIENCE: Oh, I know.
>> VAN PRAAGH: --it
was an amputee--
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I feel like
I have my legs back.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: I feel like my
legs are back and I got to say
that to you.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
Yeah.
She was part of our
family, not officially.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Was someone
helping her out then?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Was it a wheelchair at
one point she was in?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Because
she knows your mom.
She's very connected
with your mother.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because she's very
connected with your mother,
and she wants me to
tell you she's here.
Now I don't know why, but
I'm just waving to you
and I'm thanking you.
I'm blowing you kisses,
blowing you kisses.
Now this lady is talking
about sewing things.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: So you'd
remember her, she said,
as sewing things.
You understand that?
I know there'd be a
sewing basket there.
I know she would
sew the buttons on.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
[BOTH LAUGHING]
She had jars and
jars of buttons.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Is that right?
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah, from
the Depression era.
So she saved everything.
And she would make us dolls
and our dolls' clothes
from pieces of cloth for us.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Wow.
Wow.
>> AUDIENCE: But buttons
and buttons and buttons.
>> VAN PRAAGH: It's great.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
And I know that she would
take old rags as well.
>> AUDIENCE: Anything.
Cotton.
>> VAN PRAAGH: I know she
would take newspaper also,
she's showing me.
>> AUDIENCE: Stacks and
stacks of newspaper from
the Depression era.
She saved everything.
>> VAN PRAAGH: But she's showing
me the newspaper to made with
those dolls.
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>> VAN PRAAGH: She was
using them for the stuffing
of the dolls.
>> AUDIENCE: Mm hmm.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
What did you say?
She's funny.
She's also telling
me, well, I used
to clean the windows with
the newspaper as well.
>> AUDIENCE: Oh,
yeah, with vinegar.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And the newspaper.
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>> VAN PRAAGH: That's
very interesting.
Now do you remember then your
parents giving you a bracelet
that would have-- what
do they call that,
the little things on
it?-- charm bracelet.
>> AUDIENCE: I have
my grandmother's--
>> VAN PRAAGH: You have
your grandmother's--
>> AUDIENCE: --charm bracelet--
>> VAN PRAAGH: --charm bracelet.
>> AUDIENCE: --that my
dad gave her charms for.
>> VAN PRAAGH: I'm getting
this right in my head.
So grandma wants to say you
have the charm bracelet.
>> AUDIENCE: The
button lady, yeah.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
it's the button lady.
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
it's the same lady.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK, great.
Great.
Well, she's giving me
the sense in my head,
this feeling here, that you
do have her charm bracelet,
and she's honored by that.
And she wants to tell
me that-- she's really
making me feel emotional.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And I know
sunflowers are really
important.
>> AUDIENCE: Oh.
Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Sunflowers
are really important.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And if I come
to you now with sunflowers,
I know that's going to
mean something for you.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK?
And I want you to continue
the great way you are,
because I know your
mom and dad are
very proud of who you've become.
>> AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And your mother's
gone when she had to go.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK?
So realize that.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: And
I got to tell you,
your dad feels like
he passes quickly too.
Your dad passes,
and I want to go.
And he doesn't want
to stick around.
He wants to get out of here.
I don't think he believed
in life after death.
>> AUDIENCE: [LAUGHS]
>> VAN PRAAGH: Don't
think he believed in it.
It wasn't his cup of tea.
He was very black and white.
He wanted to control things.
>> AUDIENCE: Oh.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> VAN PRAAGH: I just
wanted to let you know that.
All right.
So they're all
around you, so I'm
going to leave you with that.
>> AUDIENCE: Oh, it's fantastic.
>> VAN PRAAGH: OK, darling?
>> AUDIENCE: Absolutely--
>> VAN PRAAGH: All
right, sweetheart.
>> AUDIENCE: --fantastic.
What a blessing.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you, sweetheart.
>> AUDIENCE: It was
such a blessing.
>> VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you, sweetheart.
Wow.
That was great.
That was really, really great.
Thank you all very much.
I appreciate that.
[AUDIENCE APPLAUDING]
And I just want to
talk a little bit
and just finish up
with the chakras.
So I had you do that little
visualization with the colors.
Another way people
often talk about when
you work with the chakras
and you open up those colors
by concentrating on
them, there should
be another way of closing
down the chakra system.
So just a way to close
down the chakra system,
you just close your eyes again.
I'm going to close you
down, because you don't
want all that amplification
in those channels.
I'm going to close them down.
So you start with the top of
the head, the crown chakra,
and I just want you to
imagine a beautiful waterfall
just coming down on top of
you and closing down the crown
chakra there and going down to
the third eye and the throat.
So we have a beautiful
indigo, violet,
we have that beautiful
violet color.
Just bring that waterfall
down to the third eye indigo,
waterfall down,
throat, which is blue,
at the heart, green, solar
plexus, yellow, second chakra,
orange, finally the red.
And the red, just
any excess energy
go down to feet to
Mother Earth to receive.
So try that, you friends,
and then the close,
and feel that love
that's all around you.
And you also, at home,
feel the love and light
of the spirit world around
you until we meet again.
Thank you very much
for joining me.
Thank you everyone.
[AUDIENCE APPLAUDING]